# RATopo
This repo is the official PyTorch implementation for paper: [RATopo: Improving Lane Topology Reasoning via Redundancy Assignment](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2508.15272). Accepted by **ACM MM 2025**.

Lane topology reasoning plays a critical role in autonomous driving by modeling the connections among lanes and the topological relationships between lanes and traffic elements. Most existing methods adopt a first-detect-then-reason paradigm, where topological relationships are supervised based on the one-to-one assignment results obtained during the detection stage. This supervision strategy results in suboptimal topology reasoning performance due to the limited range of valid supervision. In this paper, we propose **RATopo**, a **R**edundancy **A**ssignment strategy for lane **Topo**logy reasoning that enables quantity-rich and geometry-diverse topology supervision. Specifically, we restructure the Transformer decoder by swapping the cross-attention and self-attention layers. This allows redundant lane predictions to be retained before suppression, enabling effective one-to-many assignment. We also instantiate multiple parallel cross-attention blocks with independent parameters, which further enhances the diversity of detected lanes. Extensive experiments on OpenLane-V2 demonstrate that our RATopo strategy is model-agnostic and can be seamlessly integrated into existing topology reasoning frameworks, consistently improving both lane-lane and lane-traffic topology performance.

## News
- [2025/08/21] The paper is released on arXiv.
